refactor(gatekeeper): Drop LiteLLM (#494)
rhel-lightspeed/linux-mcp-server: docs/guarded-command-execution.md

**Configure a Gatekeeper Model**

Set `LINUX_MCP_GATEKEEPER__PROVIDER` and `LINUX_MCP_GATEKEEPER__MODEL` to configure the gatekeeper.
Set the matching API credentials for your provider (`OPENAI_API_KEY`, `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY`,
`GOOGLE_API_KEY`, or `OPENROUTER_API_KEY`). For the `vertex_ai` provider, install the `gcp` extra and configure
`GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS`, `VERTEXAI_PROJECT`, and `VERTEXAI_LOCATION`.

Example (OpenAI):

```sh

> LINUX_MCP_GATEKEEPER__PROVIDER=openai
> LINUX_MCP_GATEKEEPER__MODEL=gpt-5.4

Reviewer: I don't think it makes sense to implement autodetection of provider but then treat it like "you aren't supposed to use this". Either we should omit it, or this should be more like

```suggestion
# LINUX_MCP_GATEKEEPER__PROVIDER=openai   # autodetected
LINUX_MCP_GATEKEEPER__MODEL=gpt-5.4
```

OPENAI_API_KEY=<....>
```

Example (Anthropic):

```sh
LINUX_MCP_GATEKEEPER__PROVIDER=anthropic
LINUX_MCP_GATEKEEPER__MODEL=claude-sonnet-4-6
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=<....>
```

Example (OpenRouter):

```sh
LINUX_MCP_GATEKEEPER__PROVIDER=openrouter
LINUX_MCP_GATEKEEPER__MODEL=openai/gpt-oss-120b
LINUX_MCP_GATEKEEPER__OPENROUTER__QUANTIZATION=fp4
OPENROUTER_API_KEY=<....>
```

Example (Vertex AI):

```sh
LINUX_MCP_GATEKEEPER__PROVIDER=vertex_ai
LINUX_MCP_GATEKEEPER__MODEL=gemini-3.1-pro-preview
LINUX_MCP_GATEKEEPER__VERTEX_AI__PROJECT=my-gcp-project
GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=<path-to-service-account.json>
```

**Gatekeeper cost estimation**

> Eval runs and gatekeeper stats report an estimated dollar cost per check. Resolution order:

Reviewer: I don't think this belongs in this file - it's an advanced topic. Maybe move to config-reference.md. (If you are just learning about the gatekeeper, you are going to make zero sense of "Eval runs and gatekeeper stats" - in fact, gatekeeper stats are entirely an internal thing.

> 1. **API-reported cost** — OpenRouter `usage.cost` when present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **API-reported cost** — If the inference provider reports a cost, that will be used. (Currently supported for OpenRouter)
```

Author: I just removed the mention of cost entirely from the user-facing docs. It's an edge case and one that doesn't need to be documented up front.

> 2. **Config override** — `LINUX_MCP_GATEKEEPER__COST` as `input$/token:output$/token` (useful for Vertex MaaS eval models).

Reviewer: I don't think "Vertex MaaS eval models" will make sense to anybody. I don't think you need to say that. Just

 `LINUX_MCP_GATEKEEPER__COST=<$ / input token>:<$ / output token>` - e.g.`0.1e-6:0.4e-6`

(I'd like to change this to be $ / million tokens, which is industry standard and less confusing, but not in this commit.)

3. **models.dev** — runtime pricing lookup with a vendored snapshot fallback when the network is unavailable.
4. **Local inference** — OpenAI-compatible providers pointed at `localhost` / `127.0.0.1` (e.g. llama.cpp) report `$0`.

> 5. **Fallback** — hardcoded rates for known eval models, then a conservative cloud default.

Reviewer: See comments above.
